.TH HALO 1
.SH NAME
halo_manager \- manage a distributed filesystem cluster
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B halo_manager
[\fB\-\-config\fR \fICONFIG\fR]
[\fB\-\-socket\fR \fISOCKET\fR]
[\fB\-\-manage\-resources]
[\fB\-\-verbose\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B halo_manager
manages a distributed filesystem cluster.
It communicates with remote agents (see
.BR halo_remote (1))
to determine the status of resources running on cluster nodes.
.B halo_manager
will start and stop resources on cluster nodes, as well as perform
power management on cluster nodes, as needed to try to ensure that
resources remain available.
System administrators can interact with the manager using the
.BR halo (1)
command line utility.
System administrators can interact with the manager using the
.BR halo (1)
command line utility.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-\-config =\fICONFIG\fR
The config file to use.
The default path is
.I /etc/halo/halo.conf\fR.
.TP
.BR \-\-socket =\fISOCKET\fR
The path to the unix domain socket used for communication between
the manager service and the admin CLI utility.
The default path is
.I /var/run/halo.socket\fR.
.TP
.BR \-\-manage\-resources
If specified,
.Bhalo
will actively manage resources.
The default is to only passively observe their state.
.TP
.BR \-\-verbose
Enable verbose log output.
This is only recommended while debugging, not for routine operation.
.SH EXAMPLES
To run the manager service in active mode,
specifying a custom config file path and socket:
.PP
.nf
.RS
halo_manager --config halo.yaml --socket halo.socket --manage-resources
.RE
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
halo(1), halo_remote(1), halo.conf(5)
